_drafts/2020-10-15-en-motm-thierry-hancart.md, before:

---
title: "Mapper of the Month: Thierry Hancart (Belgium)"
featured:
layout: post
category: motm
author: Pierre Parmentier
lang: en
---

*Translated from French by Pierre Parmentier*

Thierry Hancart username: [`ThierryHancart`](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/ThierryHancart)

## Hello Thierry! Would you like to briefly introduce yourself to our readers?

My name is Thierry Hancart and I live in the municipality of Gedinne, south of the province of Namur. When I was young, with the scouts, I became familiar with maps reading. Geography and history are areas that interest me. Passionate about hiking and photography, and interested in computers, I directed myself to OpenStreetMap at the time of the retreat.


## How and when did you get to know OpenStreetMap?

In 2015, attracted by the spirit of free software, I looked for alternatives to the usual Windows, Google, Google Maps, … I discovered OpenStreetMap in the course of this research and the idea of participating in this project came to me to be obvious. After exploring the documentation – the wiki mainly – and taking notes, I started in July 2015.


## How do you use OpenStreetMap?

In the field, smartphone, hiking GPS and camera are my main tools to record tracks and objects. Often also a small notebook. Working under Linux Debian, I use the iD editor under Firefox. I regularly consult the Osmose tool to check the corrections to be made to the places visited or recorded.


## What kind of contributor are you and in which area do you map?

Having received a scientific training, I try to follow rigourous rules and precision in my records. This is why I always check them using the tools available. I cross-check my information with different official databases found on the Internet. And correct obvious errors when it is possible for me to do so. I map out my municipality and its surroundings, as well as the places I go to on hikes and during my holidays. But also from more distant regions as I am participating in the HOT (Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team) programme in Africa.


## What are you mapping? Do you have a specialization?

I map any object observed and located, often of interest to the hiker. These are often photographed objects. I also use the tools present in iD - cadastre, aerial photographs - to map buildings in areas that are less familiar to me.


## What is your greatest achievement as mapper?

I have no pretension for this aspect of my participation in the project.


## Why are you mapping? What motivates you?

My main motivation is to participate in a free project that combines many of my passions: geography, hiking environment, photography, computers, …


## Do you have any ideas to expand the OpenStreetMap community, to motivate more people to contribute?

Is it really necessary to enlarge the community? Word-of-mouth is probably the best publicity at the moment. There is little advertising material available to make the community known.


## Do you have contact with other mappers?

No, no direct contact due to the remoteness of my place of residence.


## What is in your view the greatest strength of OpenStreetMap?

It continues to be fed by enthusiasts, independent of the commercial circuits.


## What are the largest challenges for OpenStreetMap?

To become a database that is as complete as possible and competitive compared to the big names in the sector.


## How to do stay on top of news about OpenStreetMap?

To keep me informed of OpenStreetMap's developments, I regularly consult the OpenStreetMap Belgium and France mailing lists, as well as the wiki files.


## To conclude, is there anything else you want to share with the readers?

Best wishes to all of you! Be happy and enjoy life! And long live the OpenStreetMap project.

**Many thanks, Thierry, for this interview.**

Commit message:

Update 2020-10-15-en-motm-thierry-hancart.md (#108)
typos

_drafts/2020-10-15-en-motm-thierry-hancart.md, after:

---
title: "Mapper of the Month: Thierry Hancart (Belgium)"
featured:
layout: post
category: motm
author: Pierre Parmentier
lang: en
---

His [homepage](https://www.openstreetmap.org/user/ThierryHancart) and his [contribution page](https://hdyc.neis-one.org/?ThierryHancart).

## Hello Thierry! Would you like to briefly introduce yourself to our readers?
My name is Thierry Hancart and I live in the municipality of Gedinne, south of the province of Namur. When I was young, with the scouts, I became familiar with maps reading. Geography and history are areas that interest me. Passionate about hiking and photography, and interested in computers, I directed myself to OpenStreetMap at the time of the retreat.
## How and when did you get to know OpenStreetMap?

In 2015, attracted by the spirit of free software, I looked for alternatives to the usual Windows, Google, Google Maps, … I discovered OpenStreetMap in the course of this research and the idea of participating in this project came to me to be obvious. After exploring the documentation – the wiki mainly – and taking notes, I started in July 2015.

## How do you use OpenStreetMap?

In the field, smartphone, hiking GPS and camera are my main tools to record tracks and objects. Often also a small notebook. Working under Linux Debian, I use the iD editor under Firefox. I regularly consult the Osmose tool to check the corrections to be made to the places visited or recorded.

## What kind of contributor are you and in which area do you map?

Having received a scientific training, I try to follow rigourous rules and precision in my records. This is why I always check them using the tools available. I cross-check my information with different official databases found on the Internet. And correct obvious errors when it is possible for me to do so. I map out my municipality and its surroundings, as well as the places I go to on hikes and during my holidays. But also from more distant regions as I am participating in the HOT (Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team) programme in Africa.

## What are you mapping? Do you have a specialization?

I map any object observed and located, often of interest to the hiker. These are often photographed objects. I also use the tools present in iD - cadastre, aerial photographs - to map buildings in areas that are less familiar to me.

## What is your greatest achievement as mapper?

I have no pretension for this aspect of my participation in the project.

## Why are you mapping? What motivates you?

My main motivation is to participate in a free project that combines many of my passions: geography, hiking environment, photography, computers, …

## Do you have any ideas to expand the OpenStreetMap community, to motivate more people to contribute?

Is it really necessary to enlarge the community? Word-of-mouth is probably the best publicity at the moment. There is little advertising material available to make the community known.

## Do you have contact with other mappers?

No, no direct contact due to the remoteness of my place of residence.

## What is in your view the greatest strength of OpenStreetMap?

It continues to be fed by enthusiasts, independent of the commercial circuits.

## What are the largest challenges for OpenStreetMap?

To become a database that is as complete as possible and competitive compared to the big names in the sector.

## How to do stay on top of news about OpenStreetMap?

To keep me informed of OpenStreetMap's developments, I regularly consult the OpenStreetMap Belgium and France mailing lists, as well as the wiki files.

## To conclude, is there anything else you want to share with the readers?

Best wishes to all of you! Be happy and enjoy life! And long live the OpenStreetMap project.

## Many thanks, Thierry, for this interview.

*Translated from French by Pierre Parmentier*
